5Image Analyzation FIJI Macro Manual
Harrison Lab, Boyce Thomas Institute, Cornell University
Author: Lucas Jurgensen, ljj35@cornell.edu
Collaborator: Sergey Ivanov, si225@cornell.edu

Original procedure credit goes to S. Banerjee and W. Versaw

--------------
Image Analyzer
--------------

Purpose:
To speed up the process of measuring the mean intensity of an entire field of
view, primarily designed for microscope images.


How to Use:
1. Drag the macro file on top of the ImageJ / FIJI toolbar; a window showing the
macro code should appear immediately.
2. If there is already a results window open, make sure to clear or erase the
data from the window; closing the window also works
2. Select the 'Run' bottom on the bottom left hand side of the new window
3. Select the folder that you would like to be processed (it is vital that the
files in the folder are organized correctly, see 'requirements' below)
4. As the macro runs, the results window will open up and the data will collect
there.
5. Once the image processing is complete, the macro will ask the user 'How many
data points are there?' The user should input the highest value of the left
column for the data. Should be equal to three times the number of sets.
6. Once entered, four new columns will appear with the data neatly arranged for
values of CC, CY, and YY based on image numbers. These numbers are the final
results.
7. The macro also creates four new files, a mask file made from the 'ch00' image,
and three result files from comparison of images with the mask file. Example as
follows:
	Image001_ch00-m.tif
	Image002_ch00-result.tif
	Image002_ch01-result.tif
	Image002_ch02-result.tif


Requirements:
1. All images must be in the same folder as the software handles one folder at
a time
2. The sets of images must be titled 'Image0' followed by two digit tag and a
'ch' value for a tag within each set; example as follows:
	Image001_ch00.tif
	Image001_ch01.tif
	Image001_ch02.tif

Code Variables:
	Processing Loop:
		directory - The full designation for the folder where images are kept
		count - A counting that counts how many sets of images are in the folder
			selected by the user
		num -A counting variable for the for loop that shuffles through all
			possible images from Image000 through Image099
		primary_photo_name - Only the name of the base image of the set, such as
			Image001.ch00.tif
		primary_photo - The full name of the image plus the directory from which the
			image comes from.

	Function:
		raw_start_name - The primary_photo that gets passed into the function
		dir - Same as previous directory, it is the folder where the images are kept
		name_m - The short file name for the new mask file, ex. Image01.ch00-m.tif
		raw_name_m - The full name of the mask file including directory
		name00 - The short name of the first image, ex. Image01.ch00.tif
		raw_name00 - The full name of the first image including directory
		name01 - The short name of the second image, ex. Image01.ch00.tif
		raw_name01 - The full name of the second image including directory
		name02 - The short name of the third image, ex. Image02.ch00.tif
		raw_name02 - The full name of the third image including directory

	Data Presentation:
		counter - A counting number that keeps track of which datum the loop is
			currently organizing
		max_value - The number of the last data point collected, used for organizing
			the final data table
		max_row - 1/3 of the max value, this is the number of rows there will be
		row - A for-loop variable which dictates which row the datum is being
			inserted into
		column - A for-loop variable which dictates which column the datum is being
			inserted into



----------------------
Reverse Image Analyzer
----------------------
Purpose:
To speed up the process of measuring the mean intensity of an entire field of
view, in this instance, microscope images. This macro works the exact same way
as the Image Analyzer function above with one change. The mask file is created
using the third image. This is primarily  used for the Venus images.

--See Image Analyzer documentation for rest of information--



------------------
ROI Image Analyzer
------------------
Purpose:
To speed up the process of measuring mean intensity of specific regions of
interest (ROI's) on all three images of a set

How to Use:
1. Drag the macro file on top of the ImageJ / FIJI toolbar; a window showing the
macro code should appear immediately.
2. If there is already a results window open, make sure to clear or erase the
data from the window; closing the window also works
2. Select the 'Run' bottom on the bottom left hand side of the new window
3. Select the folder that you would like to be processed (it is vital that the
files in the folder are organized correctly, see 'requirements' below)
4. The macro will then ask the user for the desired number of ROI's. Input an
whole number greater than zero, two is standard.
5. The first image of the first set will then appear (ex. Image001_ch00.tif)
6. Select the oval tool and highlight an ROI on the screen then click ok on the
text box that appeared
7. Repeat step six for the number of ROIs the user selected to use earlier
8. The macro will then take measurements for those ROIs on all images and will
then open the next set of images in the directory. This will continue until
there are no sets left in the directory.
9. The macro will then prompt the user 'How Many Data Points Are There?' Input
the numerical value of the last datum of the collected data
10. The macro will then organize the data neatly based on Image # and ROI # for
the rows, and CC, CY, and YY for the columns.

Requirements:
1. All images must be in the same folder as the software handles one folder at
a time
2. The sets of images must be titled 'Image0' followed by two digit tag and a
'ch' value for a tag within each set; example as follows:
	Image001_ch00.tif
	Image001_ch01.tif
	Image001_ch02.tif

Code Variables:
	Processing Loop:
		count -
		num -
		primary_photo_name -
		primary_photo -

	Function:
		roi_num -  The desired number of regions of interest per set to be measured
		selection_num - The counter used to track the number of selections the user
			has already made in the image
		name00 - The full name of the first image (Image001_ch00.tif) including
			the directory location
		name01 - The full name of the second image including the directory location
		name02 - The full name of the third image including the directory location

	Data Presentation:
		spot - The location in numerical order of the datum being organized that
			round through the logic loop
		max_value - The numerical location of the final datum in the set, inputed
			by the user when prompted by the macro
		max_row - 1/3 of the max_value, this is the maximum number of rows
		roi - A counter used to track and assign a ROI number to each datum
		roi_num - The number of ROIs the user had selected to use earlier
		row - The row of data currently being added to. This is a theoretical row
			number as each 'row' has subset rows for each ROI which are not included
			in this row number.
		column - The column which the datum is currently being added to, the columns
			are CC, CY, and YY
		count - The row number for the subset rows within the 'row function'
